NAME
  gout - output graphics from matrices and graphs

SYNOPSIS
  gout [options] [gfile] [xfile] [mfile] [vfile]

DESCRIPTION
  The gout program creates graphics files of various types,
  representing the Scotch graph and mapping data which is passed to it.

  Source graph file gfile can only be a centralized graph file. File
  xfile stores its associated geometry, whenever necessary. File
  mfile represents label information attached to each of the graph
  vertices, for instance the index of the part to which each vertex
  belongs in the case of a mapping file. File vfile is the output
  graphics file, the type of which may differ according to the input
  parameters. When file names are not specified, data is read from
  standard input and written to standard output. Standard streams can
  also be explicitly represented by a dash '-'.

  When the proper libraries have been included at compile time, gtst
  can directly handle compressed graphs, both as input and output. A
  stream is treated as compressed whenever its name is postfixed with
  a compressed file extension, such as in 'brol.grf.bz2' or '-.gz'. The
  compression formats which can be supported are the bzip2 format
  ('.bz2'), the gzip format ('.gz'), and the lzma format ('.lzma').

OPTIONS
  -h          Display some help.

  -ggeop    Geometry parameters, which can be an arbitrary
              combination of any of the following code letters:
              n  Do not read geometry data, when it is not
                 available or not required, such as when using
                 the -om option.
              p  Permute Y and Z geometry dimensions.
              r  Rotate geometry by 90 degrees in the (X,Y) plane.

  -h          Display some help.

  -mn         Do not read mapping data, when it is not available or
              not required.

  -ooutp    Select the output file type and allows to provide
              additional parameters between braces and separated
              by commas:

              i  OpenInventor 3D mesh file, to be viewed by means of
                 programs such as ivview. Additional parameters for
                 this output file type are:
                 c  Color output.
                 g  Gray level output.
                 r  Remove cut edges.
                 v  View cut edges.

              m  PostScript matrix pattern file. Additional parameters
                 for this output file type are:
                 e  EPSF-type output.
                 f  Full-page output.

              p  PostScript 2D mesh file. This output module was
                 intended for 2D meshes; as a fallback, the Z
                 coordinate is projected according to isometric
                 perspective rules, but drawings of full 3D objects
                 are most likely to be unreadable. Additional parameters
                 for this output file type are:
                 c        Color output.
                 g        Gray level output.
                 e        EPSF-type output.
                 f        Full-page output.
                 s        Short clipping (disks excluded).
                 l        Large clipping (disks included).
                 a        Avoid displaying disks.
                 d        Display disks.
                 r        Remove cut edges.
                 v        View cut edges.
                 X=rat  Maximum x clipping ratio (in [0.0;1.0]).
                 x=rat  Minimum x clipping ratio.
                 Y=rat  Maximum y clipping ratio.
                 y=rat  Minimum y clipping ratio.

              t  Tulip 3D mesh file. Additional parameters
                 for this output file type are:
                 b  Black and white output.
                 c  Color output.
                 a  Avoid displaying disks.
                 d  Display disks.
                 r  Remove cut edges.
                 v  View cut edges.

  -V          Display program version and copyright.

EXAMPLES
  Build an OpenInventor file of the mapping of graph brol.grf
  contained in file brol.map. Vertices with no mapping information
  attached to them will be rendered in white, while distinct colors
  will be used to represent the different parts. Cut edges will be
  removed:

    $ gout '-oi{r}' brol.grf brol.xyz brol.map brol.iv
    $ ivview brol.iv

  Build an OpenInventor file of graph brol.grf without any vertex
  information associated to it. Mapping data are not required and
  will not be read, but a file name has to be provided, hence the
  '-':

    $ gout -oi -mn brol.grf brol.xyz - brol.iv

  Output the pattern of matrix brol.grf on the form of a PostScript
  flat drawing. Geometry and mapping data are not required and will
  not be read, but file names have to be provided, hence the
  two '-'s:

    $ gout -om -gn -mn brol.grf - - brol.ps

  Output a PostScript 2D drawing of a rectangular portion graph
  brol.grf, with disks representing mapping data:

    $ gout '-op{c,e,d,x=0.3,X=0.6,y=0.2,Y=0.5}' brol.grf brol.xyz brol.map brol.ps


SEE ALSO
  gmap(1), gout(1), gtst(1).

  Scotch user's manual.

AUTHOR
  Francois Pellegrini <francois.pellegrini@labri.fr>
