NAME
  acpl - compile a target architectures

SYNOPSIS
  acpl [options] [itfile] [otfile]

DESCRIPTION
  The acpl program compiles a decomposition-defined target
  architecture file itfile of type 'deco 0' into a compiled
  decomposition-defined target architecture of type 'deco 1', stored
  in file otfile.

  Compiling a decomposition-defined architecture amounts to computing
  the distance matrix of all possible subdomains, from the distance
  matrix of all terminal subdomains provided in the 'deco 0' format.
  Since this computation is internally performed every time a 'deco 0'
  format is read, and is quadratic in time, pre-compiling the target
  architecture by means of acpl can save some time when repeatedly
  computing mappings on a large decomposition-defined 'deco 0' target
  architecture.

  When the proper libraries have been included at compile time, acpl
  can directly handle compressed files, both as input and output. A
  stream is treated as compressed whenever its name is postfixed with
  a compressed file extension, such as in 'brol.tgt.bz2' or '-.gz'. The
  compression formats which can be supported are the bzip2 format
  ('.bz2'), the gzip format ('.gz'), and the lzma format ('.lzma').

  Since decomposition-defined target architecture files have a size
  which is quadratic in the number of target vertices, because of the
  distance matrix structures, using compressed files to store them may
  save a lot of space, especially for compiled target architecture
  files.

OPTIONS
  -h          Display some help.

  -V          Display program version and copyright.

EXAMPLE
  Create a compiled cube-connected-cycle target architecture
  of dimension 4, and save it under the gzip(1) format to
  file 'ccc4c.tgt.gz'. The dash '-' standard file name is
  used so that the 'deco 0' target architecture description
  produced by amk_ccc(1) is read from the standard input,
  through the pipe.

    $ amk_ccc 4 | acpl - ccc4c.tgt.gz

SEE ALSO
  amk_grf(1), amk_ccc(1), atst(1), dgmap(1), gmap(1), gmtst(1).

  Scotch user's manual.

AUTHOR
  Francois Pellegrini <francois.pellegrini@labri.fr>
