NAME
  dgtst - test the consistency of source graphs in parallel

SYNOPSIS
  dgtst [options] [gfile] [lfile]

DESCRIPTION
  The dgtst program checks, in a parallel way, the consistency of a
  Scotch source graph and, in case of success, outputs some statistics
  regarding edge weights, vertex weights, and vertex degrees.

  It produces the very same results as the gtst(1) program of the
  Scotch sequential distribution, but unlike this latter it can handle
  distributed graphs.

  Source graph file gfile is either a centralized graph file, or a set
  of files representing fragments of a distributed graph. The
  resulting statistics are stored in file lfile. When file names are
  not specified, data is read from standard input and written to
  standard output. Standard streams can also be explicitly
  represented by a dash '-'.

  When the proper libraries have been included at compile time, dgtst
  can directly handle compressed graphs, both as input and output. A
  stream is treated as compressed whenever its name is postfixed with
  a compressed file extension, such as in 'brol.grf.bz2' or '-.gz'. The
  compression formats which can be supported are the bzip2 format
  ('.bz2'), the gzip format ('.gz'), and the lzma format ('.lzma').

  dgtst bases on implementations of the MPI interface to spread work
  across the processing elements. It is therefore not likely to be run
  directly, but instead through some launcher command such as mpirun.

OPTIONS
  -h          Display some help.

  -rpnum    Set root process for centralized files (default is 0).

  -V          Display program version and copyright.

EXAMPLE
  Run dgtst on 5 processing elements to test the consistency of graph brol.grf

    $ mpirun -np 5 dgtst brol.grf

  Run dgord on 5 processing elements to test the consistency of a
  distributed graph stored on graph fragment files brol5-0.dgr to
  brol5-4.dgr, and save the resulting ordering to file brol.ord (see
  dgscat(1) for an explanation of the '%p' and '%r' sequences in names
  of distributed graph fragments).

    $ mpirun -np 5 dgtst brol%p-%r.dgr brol.ord

SEE ALSO
  dgscat(1), gtst(1), dgord(1).

  PT-Scotch user's manual.

AUTHOR
  Francois Pellegrini <francois.pellegrini@labri.fr>
