NAME
  gcv - graph file converter

SYNOPSIS
  gcv [options] [igfile] [ogfile] [oxfile]

DESCRIPTION
  The gcv program converts Scotch graph files from and to other
  external file formats.

  File igfile is converted into graph file ogfile, with optional
  geometry data being put in geometry file oxfile, if it is
  available.

  When file names are not specified, data is read from standard input
  and written to standard output. Standard streams can also be
  explicitly represented by a dash '-'.

  When the proper libraries have been included at compile time, gcv
  can directly handle compressed graphs, both as input and output. A
  stream is treated as compressed whenever its name is postfixed with
  a compressed file extension, such as in 'brol.grf.bz2' or '-.gz'. The
  compression formats which can be supported are the bzip2 format
  ('.bz2'), the gzip format ('.gz'), and the lzma format ('.lzma').

OPTIONS
  -h          Display some help.
  -iifmt    Set format of input graph file, which can be:
              bnum  Boeing-Harwell format. This is a matrix format.
                      Only square matrices are supported. Square matrices
                      with unsymmetric pattern are symmetrized. In
                      case the file contains several matrices, the num
                      parameter allow the user to provide the index of
                      the matrix to convert, starting from 0. When the num
                      parameter is not set, it is assumed to be 0.
              c       Chaco format. This is an adjacency graph
                      format, also used by MeTiS.
              m       Matrix Market format. This is a matrix format
                      describing individual edges. Matrix pattern is
                      symmetrized, such that rectangular matrices are
                      eventually squared.
              s       Scotch graph format. This is an adjacency graph format.
  -oofmt    Set format of output graph file, which can be:
              c  Chaco format.
              m  Matrix Market symmetric pattern format.
              s  Scotch format. This is the default.
  -V          Display program version and copyright.

EXAMPLE
  Convert a Matrix Market graph into a Scotch graph. Matrix Market
  files do not comprise geometry data, so no geometry file is needed
  on output:

    $ gcv -im brol.mm brol.grf

SEE ALSO
  gbase(1), gtst(1), gmap(1), gord(1), gout(1).

  Scotch user's manual.

AUTHOR
  Francois Pellegrini <francois.pellegrini@labri.fr>
