NAME
  gmtst - compute statistics on mappings

SYNOPSIS
  gmtst [options] [gfile] [tfile] [mfile] [lfile]

DESCRIPTION
  The gmtst program computes, in a sequential way, statistics on a
  static mapping, such as load imbalance ratio, edge dilation
  distribution, etc. It yields the same results as the ones produced
  by the -vm option of the gmap(1) program.

  Source graph file gfile can only be a centralized graph file. File
  tfile represents the target architecture onto which gfile was
  mapped. If mapping file mfile was produced by gpart(1), the target
  architecture file to provide gmtst should describe a complete graph
  with the same number of vertices as the requested number of parts,
  for instance by means of the 'cmplt num' algorithmically-described
  architecture. The resulting statistics are stored in file
  lfile. When file names are not specified, data is read from standard
  input and written to standard output. Standard streams can also be
  explicitly represented by a dash '-'.

  When the proper libraries have been included at compile time, gtst
  can directly handle compressed graphs, both as input and output. A
  stream is treated as compressed whenever its name is postfixed with
  a compressed file extension, such as in 'brol.grf.bz2' or '-.gz'. The
  compression formats which can be supported are the bzip2 format
  ('.bz2'), the gzip format ('.gz'), and the lzma format ('.lzma').

OPTIONS
  -h          Display some help.

  -V          Display program version and copyright.

EXAMPLES
  Display statistics on mapping brol.map of graph brol.grf onto target
  architecture brol.tgt:

    $ gmtst brol.grf brol.tgt brol.map

  Display statistics on partitioning brol.map of graph brol.grf into
  num parts. Note the use of the complete graph
  algorithmically-described architecture and of the shell pipe command
  to provide the complete target architecture description on the
  standard input of the gmtst command:

    $ echo "cmplt num" | gmtst brol.grf - brol.map

SEE ALSO
  gmap(1), gout(1), gtst(1).

  Scotch user's manual.

AUTHOR
  Francois Pellegrini <francois.pellegrini@labri.fr>
