NAME
  mord - compute sparse matrix orderings of meshes

SYNOPSIS
  mord [options] [mfile] [ofile] [lfile]

DESCRIPTION
  The mord program computes, in a sequential way, an ordering of a
  Scotch source mesh representing the pattern of some symmetric sparse
  matrix. Only nodes of the mesh are effectively ordered. Elements
  provide connectivity information, such that every node is considered
  to be linked to all of the nodes which share at least an element
  with it.

  Source mesh file mfile can only be a centralized mesh file. The
  resulting ordering is stored in file ofile. Eventual logging
  information (such as the one produced by option -v) is sent to file
  lfile. When file names are not specified, data is read from standard
  input and written to standard output. Standard streams can also be
  explicitely represented by a dash '-'.

  When the proper libraries have been included at compile time, gord
  can directly handle compressed meshes, both as input and output. A
  stream is treated as compressed whenever its name is postfixed with
  a compressed file extension, such as in 'brol.msh.bz2' or '-.gz'. The
  compression formats which can be supported are the bzip2 format
  ('.bz2'), the gzip format ('.gz'), and the lzma format ('.lzma').

OPTIONS
  -copt     Choose default ordering strategy according to one or
              several options among:
              b  enforce load balance as much as possible.
              q  privilege quality over speed (default).
              s  privilege speed over quality.
              t  enforce safety.

  -h          Display some help.

  -mmfile   Save column block mapping data to file mfile. Mapping data
              specifies, for each node vertex, the index of the column
              block to which this node vertex belongs.

  -ostrat   Use sequential mesh ordering strategy strat (see
              Scotch user's manual for more information).

  -ttfile   Save partitioning tree data to file tfile. Partitioning
              tree data specifies, for each node vertex, the index of the
              first node vertex of the parent block of the block to which
              the node vertex belongs. Altogether with the mapping data
              provided in file mfile, it allows one to rebuild the
              separator tree of the nested dissection process.

  -V          Display program version and copyright.

  -vverb    Set verbose mode to verb. It is a set of one of more
              characters which can be:
              s  strategy information.
              t  timing information.

EXAMPLE
  Reorder matrix mesh brol.msh and save the resulting ordering to
  file brol.ord using the default sequential mesh ordering strategy:

    $ mord brol.msh brol.ord

SEE ALSO
  gmk_msh(1), gotst(1), mtst(1).

  Scotch user's manual.

AUTHOR
  Francois Pellegrini <francois.pellegrini@labri.fr>
